Hello, this is Frankie and we're making another tutorial.
We're going to go in-depth into AutoHotKey, I've been using it for a while and I think
I know my way around, so this is going to be a fairly long series of tutorials that you
can pick and choose what you want to learn and I'll post about how I think it should
be used on my blog probably after I finish this video.
So what we're going to do today is we're going to start with variables and in programming
variables are, they're essential, it's like the main, it's probably the most important
part of programming is having things that you can update and change and look at and
do all sorts of things with so that it's not just you just do something and then it's
as if it never happened, alright?
So we're going to make a very simple variable, we're going to call it my there and then we're
going to use an assignment operator, this is the expression assignment operator, we'll
cover that in maybe like five or six tutorials for now, okay?
And we're going to put my string and whenever you type a string in AutoHotKey, well most
of the time, but that's a little past this tutorial, you put it in double quotes as if
you were quoting someone saying something.
So if I said, that guy said my string, well I'm quoting that string and then it goes
from here into this variable, okay?
And if you watch the tutorial before this, which was the really basic one, the Hello
World tutorial, we showed how we could do a message box and have it say Hello World,
but instead of saying Hello World, we're going to have it say whatever we put in my there,
okay?
So the way we do that in a message box, so type my there in percentage signs and when
we run this, what it should do is it should say my string in a little message box that
pops up, okay?
So we're going to click run and you see now we have my string in a message box, but it's
not on the same line, it doesn't say my string anywhere on this line, we could actually put
a bunch of other stuff in here, we could put a equals, I don't know, whatever.
And even though my string was defined up here, we can still access it somewhere else
in our script, okay?
And there's two types of things that you can put in variables, you can put string, well
three types, there's strings and there's numbers, we could have the number five and then we
could have another variable, v2 equals my there plus five and if we check v2 down here,
see it says ten.
So you can do all sorts of things with variables, you can do math and store it for later use
and really whatever you need to do.
The only other thing that variables can store is objects, but that's going to be in either
the intermediate or the advanced section of these tutorials.
So now you can play around with this a little bit, you may run into some problems because
the stuff is confusing when you first learn it, but just try making assigning variables
and then displaying them in a message box as you see here and I'll post this code exactly
as it is on the blog in case you want to use it as a reference.
Thank you.